So how do we navigate blender this may seem intimidating
at first but it's actually pretty simple.
Let's start with the 3D viewport.
The first thing you'll be curious about is how to select
things simply left.
Click any object to select it and left click empty space
to deselect.
You can also press a to select all and ALT a to deselect
all some users may be interested in right-click select. which
is arguably better for your health.
So we made a separate video about that if you are curious
the next thing you want to To learn is the basics of navigation
how to rotate how to pan and how to zoom your perspective
of the viewport to do that.
All you need are these buttons right here.
So let's say we want to rotate around our Cube.
Luckily.
We have a very handy Gizmo in the top right of our viewport
that looks like this notice how it responds to our cursor
floating above each axis.
Go ahead and hover over the blue z-axis indicator and the
left click you'll notice that it brings you directly into
what's called top orthographic.
You this can be done for any axis to snap to its corresponding
perspective. However. if you instead click and drag the same
Gizmo. you'll find a much more flexible way of rotating your
view of the world.
It's important for some to know that you can also middle
click drag to achieve the same effect. but from any cursor
position now. you'll notice that our view seems to Pivot
around a particular point in the viewport that being the
center or origin of our grid this also happens to be where
our cube is at the moment.
However. what if we Didn't want to look at the cube.
What if we wanted to look over here or something?
Well now all you have to do is click this hand icon and drag
to where you want to have centered from there.
You'll notice your pivot has changed when you rotate your
perspective for hotkey users simply hold shift and middle
Mouse drag to achieve the same effect. but from any cursor
position. but let's say I want to focus back on my Cube again.
How do we do that?
Well for that I want to quickly show you the frame selected
tool which can be found under View.
This will reframe your perspective to focus on the object
or objects.
You have selected.
This can also be achieved by using the period key on a number
pad now that we're this close to our Cube.
You may be asking how do we zoom in and out but it's pretty
self-explanatory. We have a magnifying glass here click and
drag it to zoom in and out or you can use the scroll wheel
or plus and minus keys on the numpad to accomplish the same
task. And that's basically it for the basics of navigation.
But you may have noticed that we haven't used the other two
buttons in this area the camera icon and the grid icon the
camera icon will bring you into the eyes of your camera.
This is very helpful for setting up camera angles and previewing
what will eventually be your output image alternatively.
You can also use zero on the number pad.
The fourth button here is a grid this may confuse you at
first but this switch is your viewport between orthographic
mode and perspective mode.
I want ahead and set up a scene here to make it more obvious
to you.
But you may be asking what's the difference between these
two modes?
Well perspective mode is a realistic view of the 3D objects
in your scene. which takes into account how far away objects
are from you into how it displays the object the further
away. Something is the smaller it gets visually however orthographic
mode. URS all of that and flattens your world so that no
perspective is seen everything is angle perfect.
This is an unrealistic view but helps immensely with making
models accurate. especially in relation to say a 2d concept
sketch but that's just the viewport in the next video.
I'll be talking about all the different windows.
We see here what they do and how to navigate them as well.